♪ Electronic percussion music ♪ ♪ Melody Kuna: Hi! I'm Melody. I'm super excited to tell you
about the next-generation iPad. Before we dig into
all the new features, let's take a look
at the new design. ♪ "YUM!" by Ruckspin ♪ ♪ Tasty like a gummy,
jelly bean, or lollipop ♪ ♪ Yum Yum Yum --
Gimme some, gimme some ♪ ♪ Yum Yum Yum --
Gimme some, gimme some ♪ ♪ Yummy in your tummy
sugar rush don't let it stop ♪ This is the all-new,
completely redesigned, super versatile iPad. The new all-screen design
comes in four gorgeous colors: blue, pink,
yellow, and silver. The stunning 10.9-inch
Liquid Retina display extends right to the edges in a design that's nearly
the same size as before. To achieve
this all-screen design meant moving Touch ID
to the top button. [UNLOCK CLICK] The A14 Bionic chip
delivers knockout performance with a faster CPU,
faster graphics, and a Neural Engine
with twice as many cores. You can work on
a big school project, edit high-res video, or tear through
a graphics-intensive game. [ENGINE REVVING] And the remarkable
power efficiency of A14 lets you use iPad all day. We've also made huge
improvements to both cameras. On the back, a new high-res
12-megapixel camera records 4K video
with incredible detail. It's true, Gary.
You look fantastic. [BARKS] And on the front, we did something
that's a first for any iPad. We moved the Ultra Wide
12-megapixel front camera from here to here. This is great for video calls, because you're always looking
right toward the camera. Wireless performance is
even quicker with Wi-Fi 6, and cellular models
now have 5G, so you can stream, download,
and game faster than ever. And we designed an awesome
new keyboard just for this iPad: the Magic Keyboard Folio. Here's Mish to tell you more. Mish Kanabar:
Magic Keyboard Folio gives you a great typing experience
with full-size keys, one millimeter of travel,
and a responsive feel. The new keyboard
also includes a large trackpad so you can easily pinch,
scroll, and swipe. And there's a 14-key
function row for quick actions, like adjusting the volume
or display brightness. The unique two-piece design
magnetically attaches to the Smart Connector,
so there's no batteries and no charging. Magic Keyboard Folio
is super flexible for all the ways you use iPad. You can fold the keyboard
around the back or remove it entirely. The back cover has
an adjustable stand so you can play a game
or watch one, or fold it completely flat
to use with Apple Pencil. And that's
Magic Keyboard Folio. Melody...? Melody: With pixel-perfect
precision, incredibly low latency, and support
for pressure and tilt, there's nothing
like the experience of using Apple Pencil. And what makes it so easy to use
is its seamless integration with iPadOS. The new iPad comes
with iPadOS 16. It's a big update
with lots of new features. Messages gets even better. You can unsend a recent message
or edit a message you just sent. And Live Text now allows you
to copy, look up, share, or even translate words
right from video. And of course, there are
over a million more apps designed specifically
for iPad, which make it anything
you want it to be. ♪ Upbeat electronic music ♪ So this is the all-new iPad. ♪ It starts at just $449, delivering so much value
at this affordable price, in four stunning colors
with an all-screen design, 10.9-inch Liquid Retina display,
A14 Bionic, and the new
Magic Keyboard Folio. There's no other device
of its kind. We also have
big news for pros, and to tell you more,
here's Raja. Raja Bose: Thanks, Melody. With our most
advanced technologies, iPad Pro pushes the boundaries
of what's possible on iPad. ♪ Futuristic
electronic music ♪ ♪ This is the next-generation
iPad Pro. It's the ultimate combination
of portability, versatility, and unbelievable performance
for pro workflows. At its heart, beats
the next-generation M2 chip. M2 delivers even faster
multicore CPU and graphics performance
and even more memory bandwidth and a faster Neural Engine for
advanced machine learning tasks. Doctors can work
with complex 3D models, architects can fly
through projects, and photographers
can edit massive images, all faster than ever. Thanks to the
hardware-accelerated encode and decode engines in M2, content creators can transcode
ProRes footage up to three times faster. And when you combine
this new media engine with the image
signal processor in M2 and advanced cameras
on iPad Pro, for the first time, you can
capture ProRes video as well. iPad Pro is a complete movie
studio right in your hands. Fast wireless
connectivity is essential for transferring
large files like video. So cellular models of iPad Pro
connect to 5G around the world, and all models
now support Wi-Fi 6E, which is up to twice as fast. The stunning
Liquid Retina display with ProMotion technology delivers the most responsive
visual experience on iPad and the most responsive
Apple Pencil experience as well. On the new iPad Pro,
the pencil experience leaps into another dimension
with Apple Pencil hover. Here's Leslie to tell you more. Leslie Ikemoto:
The iPad Pro screen detects electromagnetic
signals emitted from the tip up to 12 millimeters away. M2 instantly interprets
those signals and determines Apple Pencil's
position in three dimensions. This enables
even greater precision because now you can preview
your mark before you make it. And developers can take their
apps to new heights as well, like in Procreate;
projects spring to life. ♪ Electronic percussion music ♪ You can lock in
your favorite color with a tap, ♪ preview before you place, or pinch into
the perfect size. And it goes even further
than drawing and sketching. ♪ Text fields automatically
expand when using Scribble, and your handwriting
converts even faster. And that's Apple Pencil hover. [CLICK] Raja: iPad Pro also goes to
the next level with iPadOS 16. Stage Manager is an entirely
new way to multitask on iPad Pro with multiple overlapping
resizable windows in a single view, and switching between apps
is seamless too. And Stage Manager really shines when you attach
an external display. There's more room
for even more apps. And with the trackpad support
in iPadOS, you can organize your apps
exactly how you like. It feels incredibly familiar,
yet still uniquely iPad. iPad Pro's blazing performance takes your favorite apps
further than ever. And powerful new apps
are coming to iPad as well. DaVinci Resolve for iPad
for color correction, editing, and visual effects; Octane X for state-of-the-art
cinematic 3D rendering; and Affinity Publisher
for professional page layout and design. With more and more
powerful apps like these, you can take your pro workflows
wherever iPad goes. So this is
the next-generation iPad Pro supercharged with
next-generation features, unmatched performance
from M2, superfast wireless
connectivity, a next-level Apple Pencil
experience, and powerful new features
in iPadOS 16. It still starts at $799
for the 11-inch model and $1099
for the 12.9-inch model. Once again,
iPad Pro is so far ahead. There's nothing else like it!